The Cloud, the magical wonderful Cloud that you hear about in the news that moves data across the white fluffy
winds in the sky. The magical Cloud disperse bits of data across in the world in itty bitty raindrops. No, that's not how the
Cloud works at all. But you'd be surprised how many people believe that. There's no doubt you've heard the term Cloud in the news or from other people. Your photos are
stored in the Cloud, your email is stored in the Cloud. Cloud computing is the concept that you can access your data, use applications, store files, etc., from anywhere in the world as long as you have an
Internet connection. But the Cloud isn't a magical thing, it's just a network of servers that store and process our data. You might have heard the
word datacenter before. A datacenter is a facility
that stores hundreds, if not thousands of servers. Companies with large amounts
of data have to keep their information stored in
places like datacenters. Large companies like
Google and Facebook usually own their own
data centers because they have billions
of users that need access to their
data at all times. Smaller companies
could do this but usually rent out parts of a
data center for their needs. When you use the Cloud service, this data is typically stored in the data center or
multiple data centers, anywhere that's large enough to hold the information
of millions, maybe even billions of users. It's easy to see why
the Cloud has become a popular way of computing
in the last few years. Now, instead of holding onto terabytes of storage
space on your laptop, you can upload that data to a file storage
service like Dropbox, which stores that data in a managed location
like a datacenter. The same goes for
your organization. Instead of managing
your own servers, you can use Internet services that handle everything for you, including security
updates, server hardware, routine software
updates, and more. But with each of these
options come a few drawbacks. The first is cost. When you buy a server, you pay upfront
for the hardware. That way you can set up your services like
a false storage at potentially very little cost because you're the
one managing it. When you use Internet
services like Box, Dropbox that offer
fast storage online, the starting cost
may be smaller, but in the long term, costs could add up since you're paying a fixed
amount every month. When comparing the
cost of services, always keep in mind
what a subscription could cost you for every
user in your organization. Weigh that against maintaining your own hardware
in the long term, and then make the decision that works best for
your organization. The second drawback
is dependency. Your data is beholden
to these platforms. If there's an issue
with the service, someone other than
you is responsible for getting it up
and running again. That could cost your company precious loss of
productivity and data. No matter what
method you choose, remember that you're
still responsible for the problems that arise
when there's an issue. If Dropbox is having an issue with your important user data, it's still your
problem and you have to get it working
again no matter what. To prevent a situation
like that from popping up, you might consider backing up some critical data in the
Cloud and on a physical desk. That way, if one
system goes down, you have another way
to solve the problem. Whether you choose to maintain physical servers or
use cloud services, these are the type of
things you need to think about when providing
services to your company.